CPS-12 | add feedback from workshop 1 (#2)
klntsky/CIPs: CPS-0012/README.md

Inability to interchange query layer providers results in vendor lock-in. Query layer providers are disincentivized to opensource their infrastructure setup or provide a competitive service. Dependency on a fixed set of entities to run the infrastructure makes it easier for adversaries to attack dApps by taking over the infrastructure.

Having accepted standards drastically reduces the complexity and cost for new providers to develop.
This creates a query layer marketplace where providers can be more easily compared by customers.

## Use cases

### Multi-Provider Wallets
Wallets may wish to allow users to bring their own data layer provider.
By having a standard interface wallets would be able to support this, which would reduce the wallet's operating costs.
For the users this gives them flexibility, redundancy and the option to run their wallet on their own infrastructure. 

### DApps Avoiding Lock-In
DApp developers don't want to tie their infrastructure to one query layer provider.
By being able to switch providers without the need for significant engineering, they can avoid providers which do not offer fair pricing.

### New Infrastructure Providers

> New Cardano infrastructure providers want to be able join a pools of interchangeable query layer suppliers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
New Cardano infrastructure providers want to be able join pools of interchangeable query layer suppliers.
```

2. Describe how can it be used in different contexts: HTTP API, JavaScript interfaces, ???

3. A query layer standard which meets the needs of query layer providers, wallet developers and dApp developers.

## Open Questions

### How can we encourage query layer providers to adopt the solution?

Such standardization could have drawbacks for existing query layer providers.

The primary argument against such an initiative is the potential loss of business advantage from query layer providers.
As standardized providers would loose the ability to differentiate themselves via data shape and language.

For providers which charge per request this can negatively impact their ability to control their value proposition.
Such providers are currently incentivized to make the data returned via queries contain the least possible useful information.
Standards would mean providers would not be able to control the amount of data that is returned upon a query.
This would mean existing providers would have to adjust their business and value proposition to customers.

### How can we encourage wallet developers to adopt the solution?

> For wallet providers, a standardized query layer would offer long term benefits which out weigh any upfront engineering costs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For wallet providers, a standardized query layer would offer long term benefits which outweigh any upfront engineering costs.
```
